#summary Virtualisation package used by ORDS

= Introduction =

This is a quick overview of the API provided to manage VMs

{{{
legend:           HTTP-METHOD(ParameterType)

/vm               GET 
/vm/<name>        GET DELETE POST(ChangeRequest) PUT(NodeTypeInfo)
/nodetype         GET()
/nodetype/<name>  GET()
/status           GET()

/template         GET()
/template/<name>  GET()
}}}

= Details =

Currently the JavaDoc is not hosted online. Links to describe the datatypes will be added later. This document currently only gives a overview of the API but doesn't contain the information to implement a client.

A simple example client is provided here: https://svn.oucs.ox.ac.uk/projects/ords/virtualisation-client/

== /vm ==
 * *GET* Returns a list of names of VMs hosted in ORDS.

== /vm/name ==

 * *GET* Returns information about a specific VM. (name, network address, ...)
 * *DELETE* Deletes the VM with the given name
 * *POST* Changes the status of a VM (start/stop)
 * *PUT* Creates a new VM instance from a node type of template

== /nodetype ==

 * *GET* Gets list of node types. New VMs can be instantiated from node types. A node type is usually a SaaS node.

== /nodetype/name ==

 * *GET* Returns a nodetype object. This can *PUT* to `/vm/newvmname` to create a new node instance.

== /status ==

 * *GET* Used to check the status of the service. Also returns the number of open connections in the connection pool.

== /template/`*` ==

Operates in the same way as `/nodetype` and `/nodetype/name` but uses VM templates instead. A VM template is a simple instance of a VM from a VM template but is not managed as a SaaS node.
This is not currently used by ORDS.